is the biggest real estate bubble in
history about the pop you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video we're going to answer
just that we are going to look at the
absolute documented facts I will give
you what you need to know none of that
speculation I'm going to explain it all
right here stick with me first things
first home prices hit a high in 2023
limited Supply continues to fuel gains
so if you look at it in any environment
you're going to have a areas where real
estate prices are quite excessive other
places it looks like it's more
reasonable and generally what we see are
there times in which some areas they got
the good schools they got you know close
to the you know all the things that
people want those tend to stay
reasonably uh you know sheltered from
any sort of decline meaningful decline
all right but there other places for
instance those tertiary cities that did
extremely well during 2020 because now
everybody thought they could be a farmer
well they moved out into these places
they were buying these places up and now
their employers are saying hey you got
to come back to work buddy so they um
looked at that and said okay well you
know that didn't really deserve to be a
million dollars considering it was just
like
400,000 the year prior we got a problem
so so there's a very mixed bag let's
just keep that out there in the open
National single family inventory so
always separate single family homes from
others okay cuz when you're looking at
it I think it's a real big difference
single family uh is that sought after
when you go the nice neighborhood with a
good school safe all that stuff and you
could see here for yourself where the
inventory is certainly off that bottom
that we saw but it's still not super
high so when you don't have a lot of
inventory you're are of course going to
see prices that are kind of sticky at
this level where we had seen prior which
is too high for most people now people
aren't selling okay we know that
listings while they have come up maybe
the people are still are not selling as
they were before so as soon as they say
well you know what I think it's a good
Market we're going to see more inventory
come in the market it's just like people
are just waiting the US housing market
is slowly thawing but 91% of homes are
still overvalued this is according to
Fitch you heard me right 91% of homes
are still overvalued and you could base
this on different metrics and so on but
just think about it all right just think
about it for a second here where we have
overvaluations in the stock market we
have overvaluations just about
everywhere and yet does that mean that
prices are coming down not necessarily
okay it's not necessarily the case is it
a bubble I believe so yeah of course of
course prices of homes shouldn't double
in some cases they were doubling in one
year that that's that's obscene we never
seen anything like that before National
Bank sees delinquencies for its variable
rate mortgages rise to pre-2020 levels
so there is a problem here it depends on
the bank depends you know the lenders
dealing with issues subprime is probably
always going to have more of a problem
than Prime you look at it okay still
when we when we talk about mortgages
compared to like credit cards compared
to the other things there's a lot lower
delinquency there as of today as of
right now okay pulling that data from
the FED mortgage and identity fraud rise
in Canada as economic pressures
mount my goodness okay and it's being
done on purpose hey don't worry you
can't qualify don't worry let me hook
you up I got I got a friend here let me
you know he's going to he's going to
make sure that the paperwork looks all
good for you okay that's a problem okay
when when we see this because you can't
actually qualify no worries we're going
to fix that for you that that's the
thing right uh and we've seen a lot of
that but all along what's been sort of
creeping up here is Farmland values this
is the one that people don't think about
because they say I'm not a farmer well
you don't have to be a farmer to have
some farm land there's even a lot of
circumstances where um I've seen it in
places
where you'll have somebody that takes
care of the land they have a property on
that if you got a big big land hey look
take care of the land you could stay
here it's all good right they could do
whatever you want with it you're
basically just managing the asset for
that person that's the way it works and
this has happened in many cas
for a lot of people for years and years
and years and years the property might
have a you know a small Orchard on it
they might have some cattle they might
have this and that and all that owner
really cares about is that there's a
patch land there if he ever wants
something from it he can go get it when
there's a harvest you know pick up this
and that but there are there's actually
somebody there that could take care of
it of course depends on the on the
rights and so on you got to know that
person you know the squatter rulle all
that kind of stuff but anyway the point
of the matter is that Farmland the thing
that nobody wants to talk about is
slowly but surely rising and I shouldn't
say slowly because it it is significant
but people don't think of it as a real
true asset because it can deliver to you
in so many ways yes there you know
having a a renter in your property let's
say you bought a condo okay I'm going to
get a rent or I going to get some income
from that sure absolutely but there's
also the farm we should be thinking of
all of these things no no question we
shouldn't put anything down there's all
kinds of different real estate I love
warehousing as well warehousing is
something that's becoming a big big
thing because of you know Amazon
Logistics um really expanding and will
continue to expand this is just showing
us that the prices maybe you know
they're not jumping like they were
before but they're still moving up
okay they're absolutely moving up in
most areas so I'm giving you the data
and what are we seeing here we're seeing
relatively low inventory we are seeing
mortgage rates that are still high and
if we do get a little bit of easing more
properties will come on the market and
there's investors waiting to buy I keep
seeing this all the time I keep seeing
it a lot of it in Canada but um I've
seen it elsewhere where there still that
insatiable demand seemingly for these
properties they open up the gates and
there's a rush of real estate agents
investors and so on that are all looking
to get in I want I want a property I
want to get one it's
like it's crazy the behavior of this
just chasing the prices higher and
higher and higher office prices still
need to drop 50% for housing conversion
projects to work so keep that in mind
okay you can't just simply convert those
properties oh we're going to have so
much inventory suddenly because they're
just going to convert all these
abandoned office Towers or or half empty
office Towers they've made it clear that
that's not going to work and and if they
do lose 50% of their value you're going
to be in big trouble when it comes to
the lenders the banks will be in crisis
mode and they are going to start laying
people off and that could result in some
serious issues I another Factor here
that needs to be considered is some of
these areas in this case here it's
Mexico City one of the world's biggest
cities may be just months away from
running out of water so what I'm just
highlighting here is that there are
concerns think about all of these areas
that are being built up where they can't
even manage their own water not Mexico
City but areas in the US for instance
that's a big issue how you going to grow
okay what about the energy generation
where are you getting your energy from a
lot of places are the exact opposite of
self-sufficient this could create a
major Exodus from these cities so be
mindful of that inventory is a is a
thing to watch vacancy rates are a thing
to watch but in this case here what I'm
trying to show you are the big
overwhelming factors which could
suddenly create a big um let's say
downswing in real estate but it seems to
be very localized if there's that you
know beautiful area it's fantastic it's
been there for a while and you've got
these properties they're renovating you
see all the properties in the area being
renovated there's a schools in the area
that are really high rated you know
things are overall good good access to
this and that those are more I should
say less likely to encounter problems
versus you know commercial real estate
versus areas that are generally not very
nice but hey the price went really high
so it's not going to go down it doesn't
work like that okay it is a very very
different world depending on where you
look if you want the details of this
look go to my compass course I break it
all down in there Compass is the money
gps.com Compass totally free you can go
to my playlist I've got tons of videos
in there uh go to the playlist on my
YouTube channel and of course Finance
Friday I want to give a shout out to my
friends in the finance Friday crew I
want to say hello to you always uh
appreciate the finance Friday crew don't
forget to go to that link in the
description to read it for yourself and
uh you know let me know what you think
about that if you have any questions you
can always reach out to me okay uh
that's basically it if you haven't
already hit that thumbs up button when
you do uh you're supporting me so I want
to thank you for that one more thing
what are you doing tomorrow at the same
time well come on back I'll see you then
take care